*disassemble.txt*  An easy popup disassembler for C/C++ code

Author:  Marco De Donno <mdedonno1337@gmail.com>
License: GPLv3

INTRODUCTION                                    *disassemble* *dissassmble.nvim*

Whenever you edit a C/C++ file, a set of commands is defined to show in a
popup or in a new buffer the disassembled assembler code of the compiled file.
You can obviously configure the compilation process and the dump of the
assembler code as you whish.

With the default configuration, this plugin requires the presence of |objdump|
in the PATH. This plugin also requires the commands |file| and |expand|, but
they should be installed with the basic utilities.

By default, this plugin enables the automatic compilation if the compiled file
is not present on disk or if the source code is more recent thant the compiled
file. This default behaviour requires a compiler on the system, but can be
disabled with the `let g:disassemble_enable_compilation=v:false` command in
your vimrc configuration.

CONFIGURATION

The configuration of the plugin is done per buffer (you can have a different
configuration for each file open). The compilation and objdump options are
asked when using for the first time the plugin functions.

When using the |:Disassemble| or |:DisassembleFull| commands for the first
time in a buffer, the configuration prompt will be displayed. The commands are
pre-populated with basic compilation and objdump commands.

You can edit those commands; they will be stored in the buffer variables for
later use.

If you want to edit the configuration for an already configured buffer, you
can call the |:DisassembleConfig| command; the configuration prompt will be
displayed, with the previous configuration pre-populated.

It's also possible to set the compilation and objdump commands in the top of
the file. When running the |:DisassembleConfig| command, those will be loaded
as default (instead of the ones by default in the plugin). The search of the
commands is done in the 10 first lines of the current file; the
|:DisassembleConfig| function search for the tag 'compile:' and 'objdump:', and
store those values as default values for the current buffer.

>
  /*
   * compile: gcc test.c -o test -g -lm -fopenmp -lgmp
   * objdump: objdump --demangle --line-numbers --file-headers --file-offsets --source --no-show-raw-insn --disassemble test
   */
  #include <stdlib.h>
  ...
<

COMMANDS                                        *disassemble-commands*

There commands are local to the buffer in which they work.

                                                *:Disassemble*
:Disassemble            Disassemble the current line, and show the result in a
                        popup window. Once the popup opened, it will
                        automatically close on *CursorMoved* or *BufLeave*
                        events.

                                                *:DisassembleFull*
:DisassembleFull        Disassemble the current line, and show the result in a
                        a new buffer. This new buffer is set to 'readonly'
                        with 'filetype' set to 'asm' by default.

                                                *:DisassembleConfig*
:DisassembleConfig      Configure the compilation and objdump export for the
                        current buffer. This configuration is stored in a *b:*
                        variable, hence is done per buffer. This function is
                        automatically called the first time the |:Disassemble|
                        or the |:DisassembleFull| functions are called in a
                        buffer.
                        
                                                *:DisassembleFocus*
:DisassembleFocus       Focus and move the cursor to the popup window. The popup
                        window is not closed automatically on cursor move.
                        
ABOUT                                           *disassemble-about*

Grab the latest version or report a bug on GitHub:

https://github.com/mdedonno1337/disassemble.nvim

vim:tw=78:et:ft=help:norl:

